{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\deff0\nouicompat\deflang1033{\fonttbl{\f0\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}{\f1\fnil\fcharset161 Calibri;}{\f2\fnil\fcharset2 Symbol;}}
{\colortbl ;\red155\green0\blue211;\red0\green77\blue187;}
{\*\generator Riched20 10.0.22621}\viewkind4\uc1 
\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\f0\fs24\lang9\par
\b\tab\tab\tab\tab\fs28 Topics: Confidence Intervals\fs24\par
\b0\par
1. For each of the following statements, indicate whether it is True/False. If false,\par
explain why.\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1 I. The sample size of the survey should at least be a fixed percentage of the\par
population size in order to produce representative results.\par
\cf1 Ans : \b False \b0 The idea that the sample size must be a fixed percentage of the population size to achieve representative results is not universally true. Sample size determination depends on various factors such as the level of confidence desired, the margin of error acceptable, and the variability within the population. While a larger sample size often increases the precision of estimates, it's not solely determined by a fixed percentage of the population.\cf0\par
II. The sampling frame is a list of every item that appears in a survey sample,\par
including those that did not respond to questions.\par
\cf1 Ans :  \b False\b0 , The sampling frame refers to the list from which the sample is drawn, but it typically does not include non-respondents. Instead, it comprises the list of elements from which the sample is selected. Non-respondents aren't usually included in the sampling frame as they did not actively contribute data to the survey.\cf0\par
III. Larger surveys convey a more accurate impression of the population than\par
smaller surveys.\par
\cf1 Ans : \b True\b0 , Larger surveys tend to provide a more accurate representation of the population compared to smaller surveys. This is primarily due to the reduction in sampling error as the sample size increases. Larger samples have less variability and are more likely to reflect the true characteristics of the population being studied, thereby offering a more accurate impression. However, other factors like the survey design, representativeness of the sample, and the quality of data collection methods also play crucial roles in accuracy.\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1 2. PC Magazine asked all of its readers to participate in a survey of their satisfaction\par
with different brands of electronics. In the 2004 survey, which was included in an\par
issue of the magazine that year, more than 9000 readers rated the products on a scale\par
from 1 to 10. The magazine reported that the average rating assigned by 225 readers\par
to a Kodak compact digital camera was 7.5. For this product, identify the following:\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1 A. The population\par
B. The parameter of interest\par
C. The sampling frame\par
D. The sample size\par
E. The sampling design\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\tab F. Any potential sources of bias or other problems with the survey or sample\par
\cf1 Ans:\par
A. Population : The population in this scenario is all the readers of PC Magazine who were asked to participate in the survey of their satisfaction with different brands of electronics.\par
\par
B. Parameter of Interest : The parameter of interest here would be the average rating given by all the readers of PC Magazine for the Kodak compact digital camera.\par
\par
C. Sampling Frame : The sampling frame is the list of all the readers of PC Magazine who were invited to participate in the survey.\par
\par
D. Sample Size: The sample size mentioned is 225 readers who rated the Kodak compact digital camera.\par
\par
E. Sampling Design : The sampling design used in this scenario appears to be a voluntary response or self-selection method where readers of the magazine were invited to participate, and those who chose to respond provided their ratings.\par
\par
F. Potential Sources of Bias or Problems :\par

\pard{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}{\*\pn\pnlvlblt\pnf2\pnindent0{\pntxtb\'B7}}\fi-360\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1 Self-selection bias : Since the survey was voluntary, those who chose to respond might have stronger opinions (either positive or negative) about the product compared to the overall reader population, leading to biased results\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Non-representativeness : The sample might not be representative of the entire readership of the magazine. For instance, if only certain demographics or types of readers participated, it could skew the results.\par
{\pntext\f2\'B7\tab}Response bias : People who tend to respond to surveys may have different opinions compared to those who do not respond. Those who are dissatisfied or very satisfied might be more inclined to respond, affecting the overall average rating.\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\cf0 3. For each of the following statements, indicate whether it is True/False. If false,\par
explain why.\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1 I. If the 95% confidence interval for the average purchase of customers at a\par
department store is $50 to $110, then $100 is a plausible value for the\par
population mean at this level of confidence.\par
\cf1 Ans :  \b True \b0 , If the 95% confidence interval for the average purchase of customers at a department store is $50 to $110, then $100 is within this interval. This means that at a 95% confidence level, the plausible values for the population mean purchase amount fall between $50 and $110. Hence, $100 falls within this range and is a plausible value for the population mean at this level of confidence.\cf0\par
II. If the 95% confidence interval for the number of moviegoers who purchase\par
concessions is 30% to 45%, this means that fewer than half of all moviegoers\par
purchase concessions.\par
\cf1 Ans : \b False\b0  The 95% confidence interval for the number of moviegoers who purchase concessions being 30% to 45% does not imply that fewer than half of all moviegoers purchase concessions. The confidence interval provides a range within which the true population proportion of moviegoers who purchase concessions is likely to lie. In this case, it suggests that the true proportion of moviegoers who purchase concessions might be between 30% and 45%, but it doesn't definitively state that it's less than half. It only specifies a plausible range based on the sample data.\cf0\par
III. The 95% Confidence-Interval for \f1\lang1032\'ec only applies if the sample data are nearly\f0\lang1033  \f1\lang1032 normally distributed.\par
\cf1\f0\lang1033 Ans :  \b False \b0 The 95% confidence interval for the population mean (\f1\lang1032\'ec) does not necessarily require the sample data to be nearly normally distributed. According to the Central Limit Theorem, even if the underlying population distribution is not normal, the distribution of sample means tends to become approximately normal as the sample size increases. For large sample sizes (usually considered n > 30), the sampling distribution of the sample mean tends to be normally distributed regardless of the original distribution of the data. Hence, the 95% confidence interval for the population mean is valid if the sample size is sufficiently large (usually >30) due to the Central Limit Theorem, even if the population distribution is not exactly normal.\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\cf0 4. What are the chances that\f0\lang1033  \f1\lang1032 X \f0\lang1033 > \f1\lang1032\'ec\f0\lang1033  ?\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1 A. \'bc\par
B. \'bd\par
C. \'be\par
D. 1\par
\cf2 Ans : \b ( B ) \b0 , If we assume a symmetrical normal distribution, then the closest \par
option would be B. \'bd (50%), which represents the probability that the sample \par
mean is greater than the population mean in this scenario when considering \par
the entire distribution.\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1 5. In January 2005, a company that monitors Internet traffic (WebSideStory) reported\par
that its sampling revealed that the Mozilla Firefox browser launched in 2004 had\par
grabbed a 4.6% share of the market.\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1 I. If the sample were based on 2,000 users, could Microsoft conclude that\par
Mozilla has a less than 5% share of the market?\par
\cf2 Ans : If the sample were based on 2,000 users and found Mozilla's share at\par
 4.6%, Microsoft cannot confidently say that Mozilla has less than a 5% share. \par
The 4.6% is an estimate based on a sample, and there's a margin of error. \par
Without more information, it's uncertain.\cf0\par
II. WebSideStory claims that its sample includes all the daily Internet users. If\par
that\rquote s the case, then can Microsoft conclude that Mozilla has a less than 5%\par
share of the market?\par
\cf2 Ans : Even if WebSideStory claims to include all daily Internet users in their\par
sample, estimating Mozilla's share at 4.6%, Microsoft still can't definitively \par
conclude that Mozilla has less than a 5% share. Sampling all Internet users is \par
challenging, and without more details, the estimate's accuracy remains \par
uncertain.\cf0\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1 6. A book publisher monitors the size of shipments of its textbooks to university\par
bookstores. For a sample of texts used at various schools, the 95% confidence\par
interval for the size of the shipment was 250 \'b1 45 books. Which, if any, of the\par
following interpretations of this interval are correct?\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1 A. All shipments are between 205 and 295 books.\par
\cf2 Ans : \b Incorrect\b0 : This interpretation assumes that every single shipment falls \par
within the specified range. However, the 95% confidence interval does not \par
provide certainty about individual shipments but rather about the population \par
mean.\par
\cf0 B. 95% of shipments are between 205 and 295 books.\par
\cf2 Ans : \b Incorrect\b0 : This interpretation suggests that 95% of individual shipments \par
fall within the range. However, the confidence interval is about the population \par
mean, not individual shipments. It does not provide information about the \par
percentage of individual shipments within the range.\par
\cf0 C. The procedure that produced this interval generates ranges that hold the\par
population mean for 95% of samples.\par
\cf2 Ans : \b Correct\b0 : This interpretation is accurate. The 95% confidence interval   \par
(250 \'b1 45 books) indicates that if you take many samples and compute \par
confidence intervals in the same way, about 95% of those intervals will \par
contain the true population mean. It is about the reliability of the procedure \par
in capturing the population mean.\par
\cf0 D. If we get another sample, then we can be 95% sure that the mean of this\par
second sample is between 205 and 295.\par
\cf2 Ans : \b Incorrect\b0 : The confidence interval applies to the population mean, not to \par
individual sample means. Taking another sample does not guarantee that its \par
mean will fall within the specific range of 205 to 295.\par
\cf0 E. We can be 95% confident that the range 160 to 340 holds the population\par
mean.\par
\cf2 Ans : Incorrect: This statement is not supported by the given confidence \par
interval. The 95% confidence interval calculated was 250 \'b1 45 books, not 160 \par
to 340 books. This range is not derived from the confidence interval provided.\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\cf0 7. Which is shorter: a 95% z-interval or a 95% t-interval for \f1\lang1032\'ec if we know that \'f3 =s?\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1 A. The z-interval is shorter\par
B. The t-interval is shorter\par
C. Both are equal\par
D. We cannot say\par
\cf1\f0\lang1033 Ans : \b ( C ), \b0 Given that \f1\lang1032\'f3 = s, it implies that the population standard deviation \par
is equal to the sample standard deviation. In such a scenario, the\f0\lang1033  \f1\lang1032 t\f0\lang1033 -\par
\f1\lang1032 distribution and the z-distribution will yield the same intervals for estimating \par
the population mean (\'ec) when using a 95% confidence level.\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\cf0 Questions 8 and 9 are based on the following: To prepare a report on the economy,\par
analysts need to estimate the percentage of businesses that plan to hire additional\par
employees in the next 60 days.\par
8. How many randomly selected employers (minimum number) must we contact in\par
order to guarantee a margin of error of no more than 4% (at 95% confidence)?\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1 A. 600\par
B. 400\par
C. 550\par
D. 1000\par
\cf1\f0\lang1033 Ans : \b ( A ), \b0\par
For a 95% confidence level :\par
As \f1\lang1032\'f3\f0\lang1033  is not given so worst case we assume 50%.\par
n = (1.96 * \f1\lang1032\'f3\f0\lang1033  / 0.04)^2\par
n = (24.5)^2\par
n = 600\f1\lang1032\par

\pard\sa200\sl240\slmult1\cf0 9. Suppose we want the above margin of error to be based on a 98% confidence level.\par
What sample size (minimum) must we now use?\par

\pard\li720\sa200\sl240\slmult1 A. 1000\par
B. 757\par
C. 848\par
D. 543\par
\cf1\f0\lang1033 Ans : \b ( C ), \b0\par
For a 95% confidence level :\par
As \f1\lang1032\'f3\f0\lang1033  is not given so worst case we assume 50%.\par
n = (2.33 * \f1\lang1032\'f3\f0\lang1033  / 0.04)^2\par
n = (24.125)^2\par
n = 848\cf0\lang9\par
}
 